# CitiBike Use Analysis as of January 2021
#### Citibike data from both NYC and JC were combined for the month of January 2021.  

A review of the top 25 most popular start stations and the 25 most popular end point stations show many of the stations to be the same.  This implies that a majority of bike rides are round trip travelers.  In the tabulated list of popular start and end point stations, it is apparent that riders are returning their bicyles to the same stations they rented from to begin their journeys.

The overwhelming majority of rides were taken by Subscribers as opposed to other Customers.  This suggests that most bike renters are following a pre-planned regular commute instead of persuing recreational past-times.  Men far outnumber Women in the number of bikes rented (and subscriptions actually) while the median diatnace and trip duration taken by Women is slightly longer than the median trip for Men.  More inclusive subscription plans should focus on finding how to better serve Women during commuting hours. 

Rate of travel was calculated and plotted for gender, hour of the day, and rider birth year.  A peak average speed of just over 12 km/hr. is achieved by Women at 5:00 AM.  Men accelerate to their fastest speeds during the same hour but fall just under 12km/hr.  In January, 5AM is still well before sunrise, so there is no correlation between speed and day light.  In fact, speeds decrease throughout the daylight hours only to increase again as late as 11 PM.  Speed is also not well correlated to the age of the rider.  Maximum speeds were logged by riders born between 1985 and 1987.  Riders born after 2000 don't seem to be in as much of a hurry.  

The final visual displays the average ride distance from each starting point.  Unsurprisingly, the longest rides originate around the outskirts of the city.  However, there are clusters of shorter duration rides especially in JC where we can conclude that riders are not crossing the Hudson River; and in a few other locales which may reveal natural or artificial boudaries which contain bicyclist to smaller regions.  Removing these boundaries, where possible, to establish safe bike ways for commuting could help grow the market for bike rentals.
